#+TITLE: Proposed Architecture

* Portability in the current Architecture

The current Architecture of the POPL Lab lacks portability.  The current
architecture requires a dedicated LDAP server and three containers for
the lab support - one acts as a SSH gateway, one container provides the
file server facility for the users and the third is a testing machine
which runs the test cases on the upload files.  When ever the lab needs
to be deployed at any other place, all the machines have to be recreated
for the proper running of the lab.

Thus, a new architecture was proposed which hopes to address the
portability issue.  This architecture can be scaled across all the
Virtual Labs.  Currently, the new design is proposed for SASL and POPL Labs. 

* Proposed Architecture

[[./drawing.png][Image]]

There would be a dedicated file server and LDAP server for all the labs.
Whenever a new user registers with the LDAP, a home directory is created
for the user in the file server.  And, each lab would have a separate
container.  LDAP server would have two categories - Users and Groups.
All the labs would have separate Groups.  And, each user would be added
to the lab group according to the labs they use.  Whenever a lab is
opened by the user, it asks for the "Allow" or "Deny" permission and
then add the user to the respective lab group in LDAP.  According to the
groups, the users will have corresponding lab folders in their home
directory.  Whenever a user logs in to access the file server, SSH or
HTTP connection is used to authenticate the users and when the log in
succeeds, a request is made to the file server using the authentication
details provided by the user at the time of log in to copy the files of
the user to the lab container.  The files would be copied on a need
basis.  For example, if a user is using POPL Lab, only that lab's folder
would be copied.  Each user would have a limited storage capacity and
only the text files can be stored.
